---
layout: post
title: First Blog Post
---

### What do you think being a data scientist is about?
-I think being a data scientist is more about knowing computer science and larger data sets in order to manipulate and analyze the data. The role often requires the person to know about the data and what the analysis means, but it can be in just about any field, such as biology, health informatics, general statistics, sports, etc.

### What do you see as the major duties and/or knowledge areas?
-I believe the major duties and/or knowledge areas are mostly computer science with a focus in computer programming, manipulating large data sets, and the field in which the data concerns. 

### What differences/similarities do you see between data scientists and statisticians?
-Differences: statisticians deal with more concepts and theories, while data scientists follow steps that are more easily understood; statisticians typically work with smaller data sets and data scientists typically work with very large data sets; statisticians work to find the best simple model to fit their data, while data scientists select the best model based on comparison algorithms and sometimes use machine learning; statisticians are concerned with measuring uncertainty in the data; nomenclature can be different

-Similarities: the steps followed by data scientists often have underlying/hidden statistical processes, both are model-based, principles behind the work are the same or similar because both aim to obtain knowledge from data

### How do you view yourself in relation to these two areas?
-I am currently working in molecular biology and studying bioinformatics and statistics. IfI had to choose between the two, I would see myself more as a statistician because I enjoy analyzing data and determining its significance, but don’t have much knowledge or experience in computer science or programming.
