---
layout: post
title: Project 1 Blog Post
---

### My first vignette: 
• I created my first vignette to help access and download hockey data from certain endpoints of an NHL API. I found the project to be challenging because it takes time to learn about the API in order to interact with it, and not all APIs are made the same or make initial sense to users. I knew that I would enjoy working with sports statistics, but I didn't understand to what degree. I now know that the sport itself may not matter because I will enjoy working with the numbers, but it's nice to have some team favorites involved anyway.

• I followed the project prompt and began with the functions needed to access the data. I had a lot of difficulty with the Stats API because the format of the data tables wasn't intuitive to me, and I'm still not certain they are stored correctly in the creator's database because I cannot view them entirely. I then went on the create the wrapper function, summaries, and plots in the order listed on the project outline. If I had more time to complete this project differently, I would start with outlines, or skeleton code, of each section to get a better view of how the different parts will interact and rely on previous functions. I would also try to learn more about the Stats API and how to use it, preferably with demonstrations from the creator. I think I'm still having some difficulty with accessing and displaying data from nested data frames, which is what the Stats API seems to use. For future projects, I will try the skeleton code approach and carefully read over the entire prompt to learn exactly what I need to do. I will also try to reach out to the creator or others that have used the API or resources involved, if time allows.
  
• My vignette is stored in my github pages repo, and can be viewed [here](https://github.com/kmlopez12/ST558-Project1).
