---
layout: post
title: Reflection Blog Post
---

## Reflection

### What (if anything) has changed about what you think a data scientist is and what they do?
-I still being a data scientist is about knowing computer science and larger data sets in order to manipulate and analyze the data. While I still also believe these skills can tranfers to a variety of fields (biology, sports, etc.), I also think it's better that the data scientist have some detailed knowledge about the data topic in order to conduct meaningful analyses. While this person can work closely with experts on the field, it's ultimately the data scientist who will perform the analyses and modeling, so learning about the field they're in can be just as important as knowing computer science.

### What your current thoughts are in terms of using R for data science - do you think you'll continue to use R going forward?  Why or why not?
-I believe R is increasing in popularity for data science, at least in statistical aspects. Even in my short time studying bioinformatics, this language has not gone away, but has grown in popularity and strength. There are more users writing packages and programs for R, making tasks and use easier for others, along with the increase in support forums and blogs. The fact that R remains free is also attractive to users, especially ones like myself. I am still learning and will be using R in my free time for practice, especially with statistical analysis.

### What things are you going to do differently in practice now that you've had this course?
-I don't get to use statistics or R in my current employment, but hope to find ways to incorporate what I've learned, even if just in my free time. I want to continue to build on my R coding skills and continuously review statistics so I can eventually build up my own repo of useful codes. In practicing statistical analyses, I will also spend time learning the topic and data so that the analysis and models produce meaninful results.
