---
layout: post
title: Second Blog Post
---

## Everyone in this course had some programming experience coming in (due to the prerequisites).
### What are your thoughts on R vs whatever other software you've used?  What functionality do you like about R?  What parts do you miss about your other language?  Do you consider R a difficult language to learn? (If you knew R prior to the course, describe your experience when first learning it.)

I haven't touched R since about 2016 and it was for a graduate course. I don't remember much, except that it wasn't hard to use and could make some useful plots and could read/write data well. The language and syntax doesn't seem that complicated to me, but I only have minimal exposure and believe I will enjoy learning the TidyVerse aspects because they seem incredibly useful.

Other languages or coding programs I've been exposed to in graduate school include Python, Java, and SAS. Each syntax takes some getting used to and sometimes I mix them up, but using IDEs can help identify simple syntax errors and help me keep them straight. I really enjoyed learning all the languages I've come across, but often wish there was just ONE language that would make them all obsolete and I could master just that.

After finishing graduate school, I'm not sure which I will continue to study, but want to become excelled in at least two coding languages. I am currently leaning towards R and Python, but learning how to run parallel programming in Java was pretty fun. SAS requires payment to maintain and only seems beneficial if I perform statistical work for a company that needs the rigorous quality control. I wouldn't mind having the chance to retake the SAS courses at NC State to take the qualification course, though, because it would make me marketable to such companies.

Thanks for reading!
